# Pieces of American History through audible books

## This is a collection of audio books, majority are non-fiction

I wanted to take a look back on the beginning of what inspired the America I live in today. Instead of reading a text of American history written by somebody alive today I wanted to hear voices that wrote about the past while living in the past. It's like getting in a time machine and going as far back as 400 years ago when Pilgrims migrated to New England. Listening to dialog and conversations that happened over 100 years ago is fascinating. Each author often references their influences, their favorite books and favorite authors and it inspired me to do some more research to help me find more things to listen to.

<i>Eveything with a * is Included with an audible membership. Included means a credit is not required to listen to the book.</i>

### Table of Contents
---

#### Pre-19th Century
1. [(Published 1651) Of Plymouth Plantation (William Bradford)](#plymouth)
2. [(Published 1791) The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin (Benjamin Franklin)](#benfranklin)
3. [(Published 1992) Daniel Boone: The Life and Legend of an American Pioneer – (John Mack Faragher)](#boone)

#### Nineteenth Century
1. [(Published 1821) The Memoir of Thomas Jefferson (Thomas Jefferson)](#jefferson)
2. [(Published 1853) 12 Years a Slave (Solomon Northup)](#twelve)
3. [(Published 1852) Uncle Tom’s Cabin (Harriet Beecher Stowe)](#uncle)
4. [(Published 1914) Journal of A Trapper: 9 years in The Rocky Mountains, 1834-1843 (Osborne Russell)](#trapper)
5. [(Published 1882) Co. Aytch (Samuel R. Watkins)](#coh)
6. [(Published 1885) Personal Memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant (Ulysses S. Grant)](#grant)
7. [(Published 1872) Roughing It (Mark Twain)](#twain)
8. [(Published 1927) Nine Years Among the Indians, 1870-1879 (Herman Lehmann)](#nine)
9. [(Published 1899) The Theory of the Leisure Class (Thorstein Veblen)](#leisure)
10. [(Published 1899) The Awakening (Kate Chopin)](#awake)


#### Twentieth Century
1. [(Published 1901) Up From Slavery - The Autobiography of Booker T. Washington (Booker T. Washington)](#booker)
2. [(Published 1903) The Souls of Black Folk (W. E. B. Du Bois)](#bois)
3. [(Published 1905) The House of Mirth (Edith Wharton)](#mirth)
4. [(Published 1906) The Jungle (Upton Sinclair)](#jungle)
5. [(Published 1907) The Education of Henry Adams (Henry Brooks Adams)](#adams)
6. [(Published 1919) My Inventions: The Autobiography of Nikola Tesla (Nikola Tesla)](#tesla)
7. [(Published 1920) This Side of Paradise (F. Scott Fitzgerald)](#paradise)
8. [(Published 1922) My Life and Work (Henry Ford)](#ford)
9. [(Published 1929) A Room of One’s Own (Virginia Woolf)](#woolf)
10. [(Published 1929) A Farewell to Arms (Ernest Hemingway)](#hemingway)
11. [(Published 1931) Only Yesterday: An Informal History of the Nineteen Twenties (Frederick Lewis Allen)](#yesterday)
12. [(Published 1938) Farewell to sport (Paul Gallico)](#sport)
13. [(Published 1945) Black Boy (Richard Wright)](#wright)
14. [(Published 1945) The Egg and I (Betty MacDonald)](#egg)
15. [(Published 1956) The Power Elite (C. Wright Mills)](#elite)
16. [(Published 1965) Nigger An Autobiography (Dick Gregory)](#dg)
17. [(Published 1968) Slouching Towards Bethleham (Joan Didion)](#joan)

---

## Pre-19th Century
<a name="plymouth"></a>

1. (Published 1651) [* Of Plymouth Plantation](https://www.audible.com/pd/Of-Plymouth-Plantation-Audiobook/B07BYSWNBD) by [William Bradford](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Bradford_(governor)) – This book was recovered after it went missing around the time of the revolution it was found in England and finally published. It covers the era of **1608-1651**. Most of this book are letters written to British investors that expected the pilgrims to get settled and ship goods back to England. It describes relationships with Native Americans and the French settlers. There are descriptions of conflicts with how some of these early settlers behaved. Side notes such as sailors who wouldn’t share their barrels of beer with the pilgrims. The difficulties of planting crops and staying alive the first year are inspiring to hear. He tells the story of why they left England and took on the challenge of braving the dangerous trip to America.

<a name="benfranklin"></a>

2. (Published 1791) [* The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Autobiography-of-Benjamin-Franklin-Audiobook/B002V1OIOU?qid=1616368914&sr=1-2&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_2&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=VGZXNFZMWPR5RZZTZT59) by [Benjamin Franklin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Franklin) – This book is surprisingly easy to follow and written in a modern tone for the time in which it was written. It covers the era of **1706-1789**. Ben writes about the origins of his parents and their background. He has stories about writing for his brothers printing press company under a fake name. He tells a story about how he threw his drunkard friend off of a boat for not helping them row the boat. He tells us about his travels from his home down to New York City looking for work. He goes into to many details of the characters that he meets along the way, particularly his first boss he worked for as a printer assistant in Philadelphia. He describes his involvement with the British in the French and Indian war. He talks about his time living over seas. The first half of this book takes a pause and then there is two letters from curious minds that urge Ben to continue his life story. He has a chapter dedicated to the beginning of American currency. Great read. 

<a name="boone"></a>

3.	(Published 1992) [* Daniel Boone: The Life and Legend of an American Pioneer](https://www.audible.com/pd/Daniel-Boone-Audiobook/B002V0TINM?qid=1616435415&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=M37K31F4D9HABQRSS41X) by [John Mack Faragher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Mack_Faragher) – I let this book slide because I ran out of credits and it was part of the free library and it covered the era of **1732-1820** which is what I was looking for. The author used some of Daniel Boone’s actual writings and stories from his close relatives. It's a slight parallel to Franklin’s life story he too was involved in the French and Indian war. This story digs deep into his relationships with Native Americans for whom he admired. Interesting tails of growing up in the 1740’s. This book describes a time of pioneers starting to go west and build out settlements in Kentucky, which was heavily maintained by the Indians, which kept most of the coastal settlers away. All the fighting over land ownership caused many battles with the Indians and trips to the court to have a judge hand out rights to the land. Boone is described as an introvert. This book includes adventurous stories about being kidnapped by Indians of the Kentucky territory. 

## Nineteenth Century

<a name="jefferson"></a>

1.	(Published 1821) [The Memoir of Thomas Jefferson](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Memoir-of-Thomas-Jefferson-AmazonClassics-Edition-Audiobook/1713543753?qid=1616435648&sr=1-5&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_5&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=5E3ZKW8FQWVWFK3P67E3) by [Thomas Jefferson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_jefferson) – This was not as easy to follow as Ben Franklin’s autobiography. It covers the era **1743-1790**. Perhaps using Franklins autobiography as a template he too writes about his family's origin. He talked about his teachers who inspired him growing up. He reads the entire declaration of independence with the edits and revisions included. He had an interesting story about taking a note from Ben Franklin while Ben was on his deathbed and he gave it to Ben’s grandson. Jefferson expected to see it get printed for public but had yet to ever see it again. I tried to research what happened there but info was limited. 

<a name="twelve"></a>

2. (Published 1853) [* 12 Years a Slave](https://www.audible.com/pd/Twelve-Years-a-Slave-Audiobook/B00EZSV37C?qid=1616453153&sr=1-4&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_4&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=HAY4G07RZ46NJM5BFMT0) by [Solomon Northup](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solomon_Northup) – This book spans the era of **1841-1853**.  This is a powerful book. While reading it I thought this must have inspired the civil war because it was such an awful experience for someone to go through. This book is filled with so many details of the harsh life as a slave. It starts by Solomon describing his daily life and some details about where he's from and family background. He describes the ugly mean faces of the traffickers. He describes the brutal sadness of kids being taken away from their mothers. This book will put you right there in the experience that Solomon suffered through and it’s hard to read.

<a name="uncle"></a>

3.	(Published 1852) [Uncle Tom’s Cabin](https://www.audible.com/pd/Uncle-Toms-Cabin-Audiobook/B00C5OC5KM?qid=1616454443&sr=1-2&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_2&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=ZG7TR596GERW6EHERYDY) by [Harriet Beecher Stowe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harriet_Beecher_Stowe) – A great description of how people talked to eachother at that time. There is so much interesting dialog. This story was inspired by a former slave Josiah Henson’s memoirs. The references in Uncle Tom’s Cabin describe the era of **1830-1849**. Digs deep into the hypocrisies of white American culture. A great description of the kindness of children who don’t see things the way their parents do. She tells a story about how slaves that were able to invent and engineer machines would be moved to mindless labor out of spite. Stories of how slave children are often separated from their mothers. I was inspired to read this because it’s been said to have help start the war to end slavery. This book combined with 12 years a slave had to have ignited the move to abolish slavery for good. 

<a name="trapper"></a>

4.	(Published 1914) [* Journal of A Trapper: 9 years in The Rocky Mountains, 1834-1843](https://www.audible.com/pd/Journal-of-a-Trapper-Audiobook/1094001171?qid=1616454645&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=DFKZWXA1F5FN2ZP573MS) by [Osborne Russell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osborne_Russell) – This book spans the era of **1834-1843**.  It’s a straightforward story of fur traders making their way west for work and interesting encounters with Indians. It has many descriptions of different types of pioneers and their conversations. Escapes near death experiences out in the wild. He provides descriptions of food, drink and clothing styles of this time. How people interacted with one another. This book is similar to Mark Twains book called Roughing It.

<a name="coh"></a>

5.	(Published 1882) [* Co. Aytch](https://www.audible.com/pd/Co-Aytch-Audiobook/B002V0AGBU?source_code=GPAGBSH0508140001&ipRedirectOverride=true&ds_rl=1257028&ds_rl=1260658&ds_rl=1258208&gclid=CjwKCAjwieuGBhAsEiwA1Ly_nfFcTl8-cDdGcH-rYFV-iqJ4JSTG_1HW2FJrGZwd15b5Cg3x_iIWwxoC4kAQAvD_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds) by [Samuel R. Watkins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samuel_R._Watkins) – This book spans the entire length of the Civil War **1861-1865**. In this book the author writes about his experience as a private soldier in the Tennessee first regiment for the confederate army of the south. This is a candid look at the roles of all soldiers, colonels, and generals and the rigid military hierarchy and harsh life especially for a private solider whom are the lowest rank in the army. This is an action packed description of most of the major battles of the civil war such as Shiloh. This book is not for the uneasy stomach as there are vivid descriptions of casualties and cruel punishments for deserters of the confederate army. The writing style is impressive for the time in which it was written and very easy to follow. The author offers strong feelings about the treatment of the private soldier and shares many stories of the human emotional side of the confusing relationship of civilians caught in the cross fire as well as sometimes the casual nature of socializing with the enemy when the fighting was over for the day. It's a mind-boggling story of how anyone could be involved in so many battles and live to tell the tale years later. I like this story of the war more than Grant's book written 3 years later. This version of the war shares more of the shameful dificult decisions made by the confederate generals and this book is shorter with more more compact direct descriptions of the cruelty of battle with fewer obsessions on strategy. This is a page-turner and offers an amazing look at how people lived and talked in the mid 19th century and a close look at the perspective of these young men during a horrible time in history.

<a name="grant"></a>

6.	(Published 1885) [Personal Memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant](https://www.audible.com/pd/Personal-Memoirs-of-Ulysses-S-Grant-Audiobook/B004CM3W48?qid=1616454798&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=NVA3TJ1G8AJYW1AKKN0W) by [Ulysses S. Grant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulysses_S._Grant) – This book spans the era of **1822-1885**. The majority of the book is very detailed descriptions of each battle he was involved in during the civil war. He starts by telling a story about getting a raw deal by buying a wild horse and was embarrassed by it. He offers some insight about how and why the war started and the moments that led up to the conflict. Talked about getting hospitality from civilians in the south even though they were enemies. He made many points that if not for bad commands they could have ended the war sooner. He describes interesting thoughts about the press of the time and some of the issues he had with them. The final chapters of the book were very engaging up to the very end and of course he shares his memories of President Lincoln and some of their conversations. 

<a name="twain"></a>

7. (Published 1872) [* Roughing It](https://www.audible.com/pd/Roughing-It-Audiobook/B006OR7DOY?qid=1616455117&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=YTMZ8A7ZJVEX4C5RZGN5) by [Mark Twain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Twain) – This book spans the era of **1861-1867**. Mark twain heads west with his brother who gets a job in Nevada. Mark does a deep dive on the Mormons and their religion. And even heads to San Francisco and eventually he gets to Hawaii. He describes people and their language so very well in this book. If you want to go in a time machine to the old Wild West Mark Twain will take you there. Describes several types of people amazingly. Stories about friends playing pranks on him, fights, drunkards, explains why some people headed west with gold fever trying to get rich quick. He has a strange story at the very end about getting his ass kicked by I think his employer. Not sure if it was true I tried to research it but could not find more about it.

<a name="nine"></a>
 
8.	(Published 1929) [Nine Years Among the Indians, 1870-1879](https://www.audible.com/pd/Nine-Years-Among-the-Indians-1870-1879-Audiobook/1541445090?qid=1616455213&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=DCZMSA1QZ1FR61F0EDKM) by [Herman Lehmann](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herman_Lehmann) – This book spans the era of **1870-1879**. It’s a fascinating story of an 11-year-old boy and his younger brother kidnapped by Apache Indians in Texas. The narrator, the man who was kidnapped as a boy, tells in great detail of the many hardships and harsh treatment by the Indians. The Indians raised the boy as if he is from their family. He has many close calls with death and eventually identifies as a Native American and learns how to get along in their world. I like this story very much it is very entertaining and it is as close as you can get to see how a real Indian tribe lived in the nature and their customs and brutal punishments to those who dare not follow their rules. The Indians had particular eating habits that most people were not used to and the author has a lot of stories about the Native American cuisine. Many stories of the type of people they would run into in the wild and fights with other Indian tribes. This young man became quite skilled with the bow and amazingly he ended up living with both Indian tribes the Apache and the then eventually the Comanche.

<a name="leisure"></a>
 
9.	(Published 1899) [* The Theory of the Leisure Class](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Theory-of-the-Leisure-Class-Audiobook/B077ZJW1PJ?qid=1625007650&sr=1-2&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_2&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=GP46KZ9FZYCW34MX6KNB) by [Thorstein Veblen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thorstein_Veblen) – This book spans the history of the class of people whom are exempt from industrial labor. The author paints a picture of the behavior of the wealthy some of which is observational of his own time on earth and partly what he’s learned from his research of the past. Veblen writes his opinions as if he's an alien from another planet observing the human race and their constructs of the hierarchy of wealth and class. C. Wright Mills who references this book and shares his opions about Veblen's theory in The Power Elite led me to read this book. Veblen writes his opinions from more of a scientific perspective of feelings and entitlements whereas C. Wright Mills mentions the actual names and old wealthy families Veblen does not mention any names or families at all. He's writing about wealth and class more like animal behavior when you put a bunch of money here the creature does this. This book was famous for "conspicuous consumption" which I translated to mean showing off your wealth in public without embarrassment. He writes in an old elegant style and I took some pauses to look up the definition of words that aren't commonly used today which was fun. This is not the most exciting book but it's a noble and interesting look at how humans view wealth and what is the expected behavior of the haves and have not’s. 

<a name="awake"></a>
 
10.	(Published 1899) [* The Awakening](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Awakening-Audiobook/B002VA9DCS?qid=1625009040&sr=1-6&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_6&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=GQP6JTQXRQ3KZN42BNWY) by [Kate Chopin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kate_Chopin) – This book spans the era of late **1890's**. This book is about a young woman's life in the American south. The book starts out by painting a picture of a husband and wife and their kids with vivid descriptions of their day-to-day dress and interests. I wanted to find a book with specific thoughts and feelings from people living in the southern part of America in the 19th century. This was helpful to get an idea of what people were thinking about in those days I like to know what kind of character and values are desired. Surely this book helped set the tone and inspire The House of Mirth by Edith Wharton. Both of these fictional novels had a similar main character and told a story about a woman’s life at the end of the Victorian era.

## Twentieth Century

<a name="booker"></a>

1.	(Published 1901) [* Up From Slavery - The Autobiography of Booker T. Washington](https://www.audible.com/pd/Up-from-Slavery-Audiobook/B002VA8GBW?qid=1616455378&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=JF2JD8WN6QTH7N6W0TM2) by [Booker T. Washington](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Booker_T._Washington) – This autobiography spans the time of **1856-1900**. Booker T. Washington has a lot of wisdom in his story. He focuses on getting an education to raise himself up, but not just getting the education but the right kind of education and skills that would be desired. He starts his story born into slavery and worked his way up through education. He writes about if you can’t afford something making it with your hands will teach you a valuable lesson. He has stories about teaching Native Americans and then spent most of his life building schools in Tuskegee, Alabama. He has rich stories of his teachers and students. He talks about the people who helped him along the way. Towards the end of the book he talks about a big speech he made in Atlanta and the importance of bringing the north and south together. He had lots of generous support from the north and the south to help build his school. He and his students built the school with their own hands. They laid the brick before they opened their books. Plenty of great details such as becoming great and skilled at something. I was inspired by his clear basic descriptions of how to live life. A natural born leader. He goes into the detail of how nervous he would get before his big speeches. He had great stories of staying with families in the south when he first arrived. 

<a name="bois"></a>

2.	(Published 1903) [The Souls of Black Folk](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Souls-of-Black-Folk-Audiobook/B0047WU6B0?qid=1616455451&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=21X9SZPXNXF0Y8GBKTET) by [W. E. B. Du Bois](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/W._E._B._Du_Bois) – This story spans the era of **1840-1903**. This book is a descriptive narrative of black history post slavery in the late 1800’s. This is a story about De Bois looking for work as a teacher in Tennessee and eventually finding a job as a teacher. He talks about the southern struggle and the difficulty in farm life and making enough money to move up in the world. He has poetic prose in his writing. His chapters are titled which makes the story easy to consume from chapter to chapter and he offers quotes from his inspirations to start each chapter. He talks about black leaders of the past such as Booker T. Washington. He has updates on some of his students and what became of them as they grew up. 

<a name="mirth"></a>

3.	 (Published 1905) [The House of Mirth](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-House-of-Mirth-Audiobook/B002V59XB4?qid=1616474554&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=BMKPJN89F5A87PB7TBTG) by [Edith Wharton](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edith_Wharton) – This book describes an era of the end of the 19th century. This is a fictional story written by a woman author and the main character is a young 20 something woman. I wanted to get the perspective of a woman about how people behaved and what was important to the people of this era. After listening to the opinions and facts of the working class it was a contrast to shift into a story of the wealthy class at the turn of the century and the difficulties fitting into high society and finding a husband or wife to marry. The problems in this culture were petty and not as serious as the struggles of the poor people of the south but still problems to find a way to be apart of something for survival is the struggle described in this story. There are good descriptions of how wealthy people spent their money and how they valued it at the turn of the century.

<a name="jungle"></a>

4.	(Published 1906) [* The Jungle](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Jungle-Audiobook/B00514HZOE?qid=1619565183&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=K5V0TSP0E0AX04SC6CNV) by [Upton Sinclair](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Upton_Sinclair) – This story spans the era of **1903-1905**. This story takes place in Chicago and the main characters are Lithuanian immigrants. This tells the story of the industrial explosion and the treatment of the working class. The descriptions of the brutal work and the dangers of working in a meat packing factory are like nothing I've heard before. Upton explains the many ways these immigrants were taken advantage of by swindlers and as we follow our main character Jurgis he grows to understand how he'll need to stand up for his rights. There are great stories about what it was like to spend time in prison in the early 20th century. You will really get a feel of what it would be like if you just arrived in America with high hopes only to learn the many schemes and pitfalls along the way. This is a great description of how the social classes interacted with each other in these early days. There is some unbelievable dialog that will have your jaw on the floor in amazement how casual it was and how relative to our times today. This story is important because its the kind of information that you might have never heard about if Upton Sinclair didn't take the time to write about it. It also may have created better regulations for how American products are manufactured and to help create humane treatment of employees and rights for workers. Most importantly this story is so well written it will put you right into that time as if you traveled back in time. 

<a name="adams"></a>

5.	(Published 1907) [The Education of Henry Adams](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Education-of-Henry-Adams-Audiobook/B0051VVB06?qid=1616474712&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=5HY9Z1YR5G7VNF8VD4SK) by [Henry Brooks Adams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Adams) – This story spans the era of **1838-1906**. The theme of this book is the author’s thoughts about the education he received and the education needed for the future to come.  The story digs deep into the education he received from people who taught him their outdated education because that’s what they were taught. He never seems satisfied with learning outdated education because it doesn’t serve him in a rapidly changing world. His prose is very elegant rather than specific and direct. Starting from his birth he breaks each chapter into chunks of years. He is the grandson and great grandson of former presidents of the United States. He did a lot of his education abroad. He pays attention to social behavior and has lots of opinions about differences between Americans and British and Europeans. He references the history of Rome and compares similarities to the happenings of his time in the 19th century. Henry Adams drops so many names in this book it will create a fun task to google all the people he talks about and send you into some lovely rabbit holes. He really gets to the core of how people lived in the 19th century and social games people played especially people involved in politics. 

<a name="tesla"></a>

6.	 (Published 1919) [* My Inventions: The Autobiography of Nikola Tesla](https://www.audible.com/pd/My-Inventions-Audiobook/B077RHCZX1?qid=1616474760&sr=1-3&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_3&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=95V0BN242MXH19YGWW5X) by [Nikola Tesla](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikola_Tesla) – This story spans the era of **1856-1918**. The story starts out in Europe and talks about his family and how he interacted with them and what started his interests in inventing gadgets. He writes about his fears, interests and personal achievements he made growing up.  He leads us up to how he eventually makes it to America and the inventions and achievements he made while living in America. This book was very short. He had some interesting details about himself. He tells the story of his experience and his work with Edison. He offers some very insightful feelings about our future and how he feels his inventions can help humanity.

<a name="paradise"></a>

7.	 (Published 1920) [* This Side of Paradise](https://www.audible.com/pd/This-Side-of-Paradise-Audiobook/B003Y4L7BA?qid=1622587954&sr=1-2&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_2&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=5TPG6HZ9KHQ2AH7D75K0) by [F. Scott Fitzgerald](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/F._Scott_Fitzgerald) – This novel takes place in the era of **1900-1919**. It follows a young man that is coming of age as he struggles to understand his relationships with women and his status among his peers. The main character feels uncomfortable with the norm and what’s expected he pushes back on authority and the looming doom of WWI. He finds wisdom in his mom's new husband who helps him understand himself and explain the new pressures his generation is facing heading toward the nineteen twenties. I decided to read this book because Frederick Lewis Allen referenced it in Only Yesterday published in 1931. It's a good description of a less the formal relationships between young men and women then there had been in the high moral expectations of the past. This story had a very familiar feel to the famous Catcher in The Rye and I'd feel foolish if I'd believe that this book didn't directly influence the power of Salinger's masterpiece. This book flows through many characters and scenes but there are some very wonderful chunks in here to teach the reader how things were in America on the cusp of the post war 20's.

<a name="ford"></a>

8.	 (Published 1922) [* My Life and Work](https://www.audible.com/pd/My-Life-and-Work-Audiobook/B078897F8S?qid=1616474882&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=J6D4TMT8ERM1GYJP50S2) by [Henry Ford](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Ford) – This book spans the era of **1863-1921**. In this book Henry Ford talks about the efficiency of mass production just like Ulysses S. Grant talked about war strategies in the civil war. There are many details about his industrial philosophy and how it can shape how we will work for years to come. There are theories of what our purposes in life are. Chapters 16 – 20 were a direct punch of wisdom about human behavior. He shares his philosophies about work and the meaning of life that are applicable today. Henry Ford is open about his racism against Jewish people and he talks about his anti-Semitic publication that he distributed through his businesses.

<a name="woolf"></a>

9.	 (Published 1929) [A Room of One’s Own](https://www.audible.com/pd/A-Room-of-Ones-Own-Audiobook/B005FY6G8Q?qid=1616475179&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=5MV10WB5D6A6RPGQDA8B) by [Virginia Woolf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia_Woolf) – This is an important book although not from an American writer it was surely influential for women writers. It focuses on women’s rights and the lack of women’s voices throughout literature predating the 19th century. She puts the importance on the ability to earn enough money to afford the time to write. She writes about her influences and poets who inspired her.

<a name="hemingway"></a>

10.	 (Published 1929) [A Farewell to Arms](https://www.audible.com/pd/A-Farewell-to-Arms-Audiobook/B002V5CSG6?qid=1616475283&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=SF2DQJET01KGEC6822CN) by [Ernest Hemingway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernest_Hemingway) – This story takes place in **1918** about an American serving in the Italian army during World War I. Hemingway’s dialog is direct, repetitive, basic and American. I figure he inspired all the modern American writers since being published. He brings a dirty sense of humor, does a nice job describing a character that is going with the flow, and pointing out things he doesn't like about the war with moments of perfect imagery. It is a work of fiction but also loosely based on Hemingway’s own experiences in the war. It’s been the first book I read in which a famous sports figure was mentioned and I was excited to see that popular sports had officially entered the minds of creative writers such as Hemingway.

<a name="yesterday"></a>

11.	(Published 1931) [* Only Yesterday: An Informal History of the Nineteen Twenties](https://www.audible.com/pd/Only-Yesterday-Audiobook/B002V8MEX0?qid=1622503430&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=JS8CZYCP38D3DMVGBS82) by [Frederick Lewis Allen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederick_Lewis_Allen) – This is a thorough description of the time between **1919-1931**. If you ever wanted to take a deep dive into the roaring 20's this book does the job. This is wonderfully written with more details and names than I could possibly find time to Google. It describes the big crimes, presidential scandals, popular games, the red scare, the economy boom and then eventual bust. He pinpoints the biggest stories that happened in this era. There was so much I never knew before reading this book and it can really help you learn about the modern culture we enjoy today. There is fascinating minutia such as the rising and lowering of women’s dresses with the trends in fashion and the promiscuity of the youth. There is a chapter of the counter culture led by H.L. Mencken and the bohemians that surely inspired the more famous counter culture of the 40's and 50's led by beatniks such as Jack Kerouac and William S. Burroughs which are household names today. This is a must read for history junkies there is so much to absorb in this book. 

<a name="sport"></a>

12.	(Published 1938) [Farewell to sport](https://www.audible.com/pd/Farewell-to-Sport-Audiobook/B00S6YMD02?qid=1616475343&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=XJT2NQJB9ZVA5D1ENX5P) by [Paul Gallico](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Gallico) – Obviously a fan of Hemingway this book doesn’t hold back to really talk about the phoniness in sports of that era and he also writes about our passion for sports and how sports are presented to the public. This is like the catcher in the rye for sports. The author is not afraid to burn bridges as he is set to retire and he plans to move on to start writing novels. The early chapters are based on popular athletes that are beloved in the era of the 1920’s to the late 1930’s. There is a great chapter on Babe Ruth and there is a heavy focus on the sport of boxing and the boxing stars of that era.  The later chapters dissects the philosophies, the people running things behind the scenes, unfair treatment of black athletes, the sex appeal marketing strategies, the exploitation of amateur college football players and a variety of feelings and emotions surrounding this wild wacky world we call sports. Never before or will we ever get such a close look into the sports world and peek behind the curtain of all aspects surrounding the sports industry. This book sets the tone for how we deal with our sports hero’s of today. There is a chapter about the difficulties of black athletes of that era and the hypocrisies of the people who controlled sports. He describes women sports in a male chauvinistic manner but also praises some of the best women athletes of that era. And a wonderfuly written indepth description of the beautifulness of the sport of baseball.

<a name="wright"></a>

13.	(Published 1945) [Black Boy](https://www.audible.com/pd/Black-Boy-Audiobook/0063008610?qid=1616475430&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=4GP42968NKN1CXS7VRYX) by [Richard Wright](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Wright_(author)) – This book spans the era of **1910-1945**. The story is an autobiography of Richard Wright. The book mostly depicts life in Mississippi and the south and later it describes Richard's adult life in Chicago. He tells about the difficulties he faced relating to a strict religious family growing up without a father. The stressful unforgiving nature of trying to socialize with white people careful not to say or do the wrong thing. He describes his slow realization that his role in the south was doomed and he day dreams looking for answers and decides he needs to get away from Mississippi and try to make his way north. This is a goldmine of very well written dialog and vivid imagery that can plant the reader right there with him on his journey. Anyone that questions why things are the way they are and wants to discover more out of life than just doing the norm like everybody else can relate to this book. The particular tough life is powerfully and painfully describe in this true story of striving to overcome the odds. He has amazing story of his love for writing stories from his imagination as a boy and then he tells about how he escaped through books as he grew older and uncovered a whole new world of people who were curious about the world around just like he was and he lists his favorite books from that time. Richard has unabashing story of the communist parties and radicals that were current in the late 1920's and early 30's in Chicago.

<a name="egg"></a>

14.	(Published 1945) [The Egg and I](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Egg-and-I-Audiobook/B00YDHK9KW) by [Betty MacDonald](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Betty_MacDonald) – This book spans the era of **1907-1935**. The story is an autobiography of Betty MacDonald. The book starts out describing her early life growing up in Montana, but the majority of the story tells about her time living on a farm in the mountains on the Olympic Peninsula near Seattle, Washington. This was the first audio book that I had to slow down the speed of the audio to keep up with all the descriptive swirling sentences and imagery. There are some very amazing descriptions of town life and even the smells of the shops in this rural town and also the informative depictions of the towns people delivered with effortless humor. It was towards the end of the book that I realized how much it reminded me of Cannery Row by John Steinbeck and as it turns out both of these books were published in the same year in 1945. I wondered who had influenced whom but it seems that both authors were just feeling this moment in time in the pacific north west.

<a name="elite"></a>

15.	(Published 1956) [The Power Elite](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Power-Elite-Audiobook/1541433106?qid=1619565925&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=YNSAFP0JTDNNXS0EKZ7E) by [C. Wright Mills](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C._Wright_Mills) – This story spans the era of **1865-1955**. This book is trying to define a group of individuals that make up the American power elite and how these people become powerful and make big decisions that have massive affects on everybody who lives in America and around the world. This book starts out a little slow taking its time to describe who are the power elite and what is the power elite. Then the author writes about the difference between new wealth compared to old wealth of these times. I had to pause often to google all the wealthy powerful people he mentions. Mills has a philosophy of how the wealthy became wealthy. He describes many stats of the wealthy that is hard to keep up with for example the amount of millionaires in 1865 vs the amount of millionaires in 1890 and the percentage of wealthy people who graduated from college in 1890 compared to the wealthy in 1950. A deep dive on how many wealthy came from modest working class families in 1865 vs the amount in 1950. He talks of the difficulties to get anywhere near the amount of the wealth of the power elite by just saving up a yearly salary. This book takes a very interesting look at how America's economy functions and the relationship between social classes. The author mentions and quotes all the attempts to explain wealth in America before he took a crack at it in 1956. There is an enlighting chapter about how the power elite can obviously use the media to push along agendas that will benefit the wealthy. There is much to learn by reading this but you have to pay close attention as the author uses an elegant writing style with lots of fancy big words.

<a name="dg"></a>

16.	(Published 1965) [Nigger An Autobiography](https://www.audible.com/pd/Nigger-Audiobook/B0844DWZQ7?qid=1622589862&sr=1-1&ref=a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=83218cca-c308-412f-bfcf-90198b687a2f&pf_rd_r=R8B2EQ9FNSCQR29BDZJ9) by [Dick Gregory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dick_Gregory) – This autobiography of Dick Gregory's life experiences spans the era of **1937-1965**. Dick writes about his early life growing up in St. Louis and his athletic achievements on his high school track team. He writes about how he developed his humor to hide insecurities and to enhance is social status among his peers. He explains how he used his charm several times throughout his life to make his life better and push his dreams forward to land his goals. Dick Gregory has many details of how he used his persuasion to not just help his life but to also help those in need of some wisdom to turn their lives around. He writes about his activism, support and speeches made during the civil rights marches in Mississippi. His opinions of race relations are very insightful and he has an intelligent philosophical idea of white and black people and also a touch of humor to tie it all together. He shared some comedy 101 about when some jokes will work and when they won't. I love this book because I feel like Dick Gregory's story and his comedy was missed by the millennial generation and he is not often mentioned by other comedians as a pioneer, which he most definitely is. If you are trying to come to grips with how people with differences can ever get along in this world pick up this book and travel back to the 40's 50's and 60's and see how those who came before us struggled with it. 

17.	(Published 1968) [Slouching Towards Bethlehem](https://www.audible.com/pd/Slouching-Towards-Bethlehem-Audiobook/B0093LRYHO?source_code=GPAGBSH0508140001&ipRedirectOverride=true&ds_rl=1257028&ds_rl=1260658&ds_rl=1258208&gclid=CjwKCAjwrPCGBhALEiwAUl9X0zdZ4om0TZ4Slw1i3sZ61uQ3GfY-56Cy_-ogIoOLPpXRNRZlLSL0yRoCB7sQAvD_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds) by [Joan Didion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joan_Didion) – This collection of stories about the 60's, most of which are set in California, starting in the era of **1965** and continues to tell a story from each year in chronological order up to **1968**. I was craving non-fiction stories from southern California and this book fits the bill perfectly. There is some true crime, some insightful opinions of the type of Americans that want to come to California and the types of social bubbles they want to project once they arrive. Didion uses endearing descriptions to show the contrast of a young musician’s fame versus old Hollywood fame. When the southern California let downs and depression washes over you she describes the banal indifference so well. She takes us on a deep dive into the San Francisco hippy movement, which she describes as a chaotic time of disorder. She describes the 60's in a way that I never thought about before, she really helps you understand how loose and scary it all seemed for those people that prefer things be under control and people can be dependable. Didion brilliantly explains how she needed to be ok with disorder and to realize most of these kids were not being taught the rules of society. This is my first time reading any Joan Didion and excited to read more of her work. I don't find a lot of non-fiction describing California since I started my American history research and this book is an absolute gem and Joan Didion has become one of my favorite authors. 